---
layout:
  title:
    visible: true
  description:
    visible: false
  tableOfContents:
    visible: true
  outline:
    visible: true
  pagination:
    visible: true
---

# What is On-Chain?

The on-chain flow in the Aleo ecosystem focuses on interactions that occur directly within the Aleo blockchain. These interactions provide permissionless privacy and trust. This is in contrast to the off-chain flow, where operations might be initiated and completed outside of the zPass system.

#### Credential Generation (Off-chain)

Credentials may originate from off-chain entities such as government agencies or educational institutions. Although these credentials are not generated by Aleo's programs, they can be integrated into the on-chain workflow.

#### Credential Issuance (On-chain)

Credentials are fed as inputs into Aleo programs, also known as issuance programs. These programs act as trusted authorities for generating the digital equivalents of the real-world credentials, known as a zPass. The issuance process includes cryptographic validation of the credential against its digital signature and the Issuer's public key. Successful validation results in the issuance of a zPass, which is committed to the Aleo blockchain. The recipient of the zPass is termed the "Holder."

#### Holder Presentation and Aleo Verification (On-chain)

Once a zPass is issued and stored on-chain, the Holder can use it for various transactions within the Aleo ecosystem. Aleo programs verify specific claims against the presented zPass, ensuring privacy, data integrity, and establishing trust.
